Added a password section to the opsec framework (#468)
security-alliance/frameworks: docs/pages/opsec/passwords/sso.mdx

---
title: "Single Sign-on | Security Alliance"

> description: "Use SSO (OAuth/SAML) for passwordless auth with Okta/Auth0/Google. Reduces secrets sprawl, enforces MFA and session controls."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Use SSO (OAuth/SAML) for federated passwordless auth with Okta/Auth0/Google. Reduces secrets sprawl, enforces MFA, session controls, IdP hardening."
```

SSO federates sign-in. Users only sign-in with the identity provider, and
the identity provider shares a cryptographically signed message indicating
the authenticity of the user's identity. Passwords are only handled by one
service, not many.

## Advantages of Centralized Sign-in

Identity providers are a single point of failure, and it is reasonable to
ask if this type of centralization is not a step back in security rather than
a step forward. However, the valid counter argument is that the cost of 
implementing best-in-class sign-in security is high given the level of 
sophistication of the attacker. Since it is costly to follow best 
practices, it is natural for centralization and economies of scale to follow.

Features like passkey login that are the best practice in sign-in security are not
implemented uniformly across all 3rd party services. Rather than accept the limitations
of each individual service, federated identity ensures that all services follow a uniform
best practice.

In addition, a centralized identity provider allows for a consolidated view
of all of the devices where a user is signed in; a single place to rotate

> passwords if you are concerned that a user may have revealed his password to a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
passwords if you are concerned that a user may have revealed their password to a
```
